>> Nina Zakharenko: One last
thing would be the zip function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's say I
used a dictionary comprehension.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And I wanted to
build up a dictionary where the key was
the number and
the value was that number squared for
all the numbers from zero to ten.
How do I start my
dictionary comprehension?
What's my loop?
What am I looping over?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Well,
I don't have any numbers, so
how would I get a list of numbers
from zero to ten's range?
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
to build up my dictionary,
what's the key here that I want?
>> Speaker 2: Num.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Num.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
the value is num times num.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I wanted to
see all of the keys in my dictionary,
what method would I call?
>> Speaker 2: .keys.
>> Nina Zakharenko: .keys.
And all of the values, .values.
These two look kind of like a list, right?
It's kind of a different data structure,
they look kinda like a list, right?
What if I wanted to get
the key value pairs?
>> Speaker 2: Items?
>> Nina Zakharenko: .items, okay,
kind of ignoring this part.
What sort of data structure
does this result look like?
>> Speaker 2: A list of tuples.
>> Nina Zakharenko: A list of tuples.
Does that make sense to everyone?
Okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you think we had
a list of tuples.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Maybe there is a way
we can turn it back into a dictionary.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, so
let's say I had a list of players.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And those players had-
>> Nina Zakharenko: Some scores in a game.
So I got the best score, obviously.
Bob got five points, and
let's say Alice is a runner up.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Quick way to combine
the values in these two lists is
with the zip function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
you're passing two or more, I believe.
I don't remember about the more,
but I'll have to look it up.
But we'll talk about two,
you pass in two different lists to zip.
And we get something that looks like this,
and it's like okay, well, what is this?
What does this kind of
look like that we've seen?
Generator, right.
So we can't really do anything with this
data structure until we loop over it.
So let me just do that,
let's say for, we don't really know
what this data structure contains.
So maybe let's just print out for
item, just like the item in the zip,
players and scores, print out the item.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, here we go.
Now we know that we have a list of tuples.
How do we loop over
this list of tuples and
use tuple unpacking to pull out
the name and the score from each one?
What would I loop over?
>> Speaker 2: Name, score.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Name,
score in zip(players, scores).
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I can print out an f string and say,
Name:  had a score of .
>> Nina Zakharenko: Could I
do this with a comprehension?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah, I could, right?
I would be looping over for
name, score in zip(players,
scores), and
I could just print out my same f string.
Name  had score .
And that would give me
a list of formatted strings.
The interesting thing about zip
is you need to be mindful of,
let's say I had my_list1, and it had
three items in it, and
my_list2 had two items in it.
If we try to zip these things-
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'd
get this zip object.
When we wanted to look at
everything that a generator,
the range generator had in it, what did
I quickly do to kind of debug that?
>> Nina Zakharenko: I used a for loop,
but I can also pass it into what?
>> Speaker 2: List.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes,
I passed it into list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
as we'll see here, zip only works.
It goes through all the items in both
lists and it matches them up one by one.
So one's pair was A, two's pair was B.
What is three's pair?
>> Nina Zakharenko: It didn't have one,
right?
So it didn't make it into
the final list of tuples.
Okay, going back to our zip of players and
scores.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm gonna pass this
into list just so we can look at it.
If dictionary.items
returned a list of tuples,
maybe we can take this list of tuples and
turn it into a dictionary.
All right, and
the way of doing that is very simple.
Just like I passed the zip into list here,
to see it in list form,
I could also just pass
it into a dict here and
get a dictionary out of it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And keep in mind that
the tuple has to be two items, right?
The first item is the key,
the second item is the what?
>> Speaker 3: The value.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The value.
>> Speaker 2: Nina, would it be fair to
say that if you create a dictionary from
a zip generator you're gonna
use up some memory doing that?
Okay, so that's good to know.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah, it just kind
of depends on your end result, right?
Do you wanna see the data
in a key value form?
Do you wanna take advantage of
very quick membership testing,
finding out very quickly if a key is or
is not in the dictionary?
Or do you wanna loop over all
the items and take some action?
So it kinda depends on the end use case.